Magic in Eadras

Magic is a very powerful force in Eadras, infusing everything within the Mythos. With the total sacrifice of the Creator Deities, orders of magnitude more magical energy exist within Eadras than almost any other Mythos.

What the Arathis named magical energy is lost to time, but it is known that they were masters of its use.

Dragons called magical energy Eldritch, and that name stuck for most of history, until after the weave was formed and the proliferation of human wizards and sorcerers renamed it quintessence.

The Source

Raw magical energy radiates from the Sun, like light, and raw sourceshine can be dangerous. When sourceshine hits bedrock on Eadras or any of its moons, that energy is changed into magical energy that is usable by the majority of races, whatever it is called. Raw and reflected sourceshine form the majority of magical energy available in Eadras, but not all. Each of the inner planes of Eadras has innate magical energy, spiritual beings have innate magical energy, and Gods have Godpower.

The Four Magical Traditions

In the present, there are four magical traditions that survive with substantial populations.

Priests - call upon Deities, spells rely on Godpower

Druids - Ally with nature, spells use the Source directly (not sourceshine, directly, very dangerous, potentially very powerful)

Wizards - call upon the local magical field and sometimes call magic from outside Eadras (Alien Magic)

Sorcerers - Can natively use the weave, the web of magic created by the Goddess of Magic at the end of the Demon War to restrict the ability of outsiders to use magic in Eadras. The weave is composed of seven strands, each a different aspect of magic. Sorcerers can compose the strands into flows that are woven into magical effects (spells).

There are a few other magical traditions, less well known - witchcraft, Spirit Binding, Pact Magic, and a few others.


The Source of Magic
Magic comes from three different sources in Eadras - The Source (the sun), extradimensional magic (spirit magic, pact magic), and divine magic (flowing from the Gods).

Most of the magic used (in any flavor) in Eadras comes from the Source in one way or another. Sourceshine is raw magical power, and is refined by being reflected off the rock of the land and under the sea. This reflected, usable magical power is called Eldritch, and can be used by Adepts. The Eldritch naturally seeks to pool and flow, so it pools to form a pond, then flows outward into ley lines and they form larger and larger flows of magic until they terminated at the poles (before the War of the Gods), but now the ponds flow into threads, then strands, then chords, then conduits.

The Source is where the Goddess of the Sorcerers emanates magic from, where Druids draw magic from (raw magic they call the All).

Gods do not personally answer the prayers of every follower, there is a divine bureaucracy for that. The bureaucracy draws on a pool created by all the gods to answer the prayers of the faithful.

Mana is a magic inherent to magical materials. It is magic trapped in a material form, for example a magical organ or magical plant.

Planar magic is magic drawn from various elemental planes; spirit magic is magic powered by spirits (either willingly or unwillingly), and Pact Magic is bargaining with powerful outsiders for powerful magic.
